docs/RFPs/Open/IDE_for_ink_Smart_Contracts.md, before:

# Browser based IDE for ink! Smart Contracts 

* **Status:** Open
* **Proposer:** [David Hawig](https://github.com/Noc2)

## Project Description :page_facing_up:  

[ink!](https://github.com/paritytech/ink) is a domain-specific language for writing smart contracts in Rust and compiles to Wasm code. You can deploy ink! contracts on parachains that support the contracts pallet, as well as on stand-alone blockchains built with Substrate.

The goal of this RFP is to find teams that would like to develop or maintain a browser-based playground for editing, compiling & sharing ink! smart contracts. The [ink! Playground](https://ink-playground.substrate.io/), previously maintained by Parity, utilizes Typescript, React, Docker, and [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/). Teams could continue to work on the [ink! Playground](https://github.com/paritytech/ink-playground), or choose to build something new if desired. For example, it might be possible to leverage GitHub Codespaces in combination with GitHub Actions or the previously developed [ink! Remix plugin](https://github.com/blockchain-it-hr/ink-remix-plugin).

**Useful resources:**
- [ink!](https://use.ink/)
- [ink-playground](https://ink-playground.substrate.io)
- [GitHub ink-playground](https://github.com/paritytech/ink-playground)
- [GitHub: ink! Remix plugin](https://github.com/blockchain-it-hr/ink-remix-plugin)

## Deliverables

The structure of the grant and the milestones depends highly on the project itself. It’s therefore up to the applying team to come up with a milestone and delivery structure.

Commit message:

Update IDE_for_ink_Smart_Contracts.md (#1693)
Focus on maintenance instead of rewrite.

docs/RFPs/Open/IDE_for_ink_Smart_Contracts.md, after:

# Browser based IDE for ink! Smart Contracts 

* **Status:** Open
* **Proposer:** [David Hawig](https://github.com/Noc2)

## Project Description :page_facing_up:  

[ink!](https://github.com/paritytech/ink) is a domain-specific language for writing smart contracts in Rust and compiles to Wasm code. You can deploy ink! contracts on parachains that support the contracts pallet, as well as on stand-alone blockchains built with Substrate.

The goal of this RFP is to find teams that would like to maintain the browser-based ink! Playground for editing, compiling & sharing ink! smart contracts. [ink! Playground](https://ink-playground.substrate.io/), previously maintained by Parity, utilizes Typescript, React, Docker, and [Monaco Editor](https://microsoft.github.io/monaco-editor/). 

**Useful resources:**
- [ink!](https://use.ink/)
- [ink-playground](https://ink-playground.substrate.io)
- [GitHub ink-playground](https://github.com/paritytech/ink-playground)
- [GitHub: ink! Remix plugin](https://github.com/blockchain-it-hr/ink-remix-plugin)

## Deliverables

We recommend applying for a [maintenance grant](https://w3f.github.io/Grants-Program/docs/maintenance), which allows a more flexible structure and roadmap. The list of issues and features to be covered by the grant should be discussed with the previous maintainers and the community, but it is generally up to the applying team to come up with a milestone and delivery structure.
