.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

### Project Abstract

> Please provide a brief description of your project here summarising key points (1-2 paragraphs).
>
> If your application is a follow-up to a previous grant, please mention which one in the first line of the abstract and include a link to previous pull requests if applicable.

### Application Checklist

- [x] The [application template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/application-template.md) has been copied, renamed ( `project_name.md`) and updated.
- [ ] The total funding amount of the project is below USD $30k for first-time grant applications and $100k for follow-up ones.
- [ ] A BTC or Ethereum (DAI/USDT) address for the payment of the milestones is provided inside the application.
- [ ] I have read and acknowledged the [terms and conditions](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/docs/T&Cs.md).
- [ ] The software delivered for this grant will be released under an open-source license specified in the application.
- [ ] The initial PR contains only one commit (squash and force-push if needed).
- [ ] The grant will only be announced once the first milestone [has been accepted](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery).

Commit message:

Integrate level (#557)
* first draft to integrate level

* Update README.md

update formatting

* Update pull_request_template.md

integrate level

* Update application-template.md

Integrate new level system

* Update README.md

Add Federica Dubbini

* Update README.md

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Müller <sebastian@web3.foundation>

* Update applications/application-template.md

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Müller <sebastian@web3.foundation>

* Update README.md

removed  seek funding above the aforementioned limits

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Müller <sebastian@web3.foundation>

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

### Project Abstract

> Please provide a brief description of your project here summarising key points (1-2 paragraphs).
>
> If your application is a follow-up to a previous grant, please mention which one in the first line of the abstract and include a link to previous pull requests if applicable.

### For which grant [level](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/Integrate-level#level_slider-level) are you applying? 
- [ ] **Level 1**:  Up to $10,000, 2 Approvals
- [ ] **Level 2**:  Up to $50,000, 3 Approvals
- [ ] **Level 3**:  Unlimited, 5 Approvals (for > $100k W3F Foundation Council Approval)

### Application Checklist

- [x] The [application template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/application-template.md) has been copied, renamed ( `project_name.md`) and updated.
- [ ] A BTC or Ethereum (DAI/USDT) address for the payment of the milestones is provided inside the application.
- [ ] I have read and acknowledged the [terms and conditions](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/docs/T&Cs.md).
- [ ] The software delivered for this grant will be released under an open-source license specified in the application.
- [ ] The initial PR contains only one commit (squash and force-push if needed).
- [ ] The grant will only be announced once the first milestone [has been accepted](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery).
