README.md, before:

# Open Grants Program <!-- omit in toc -->

<p align="center">
  <img src="src/Open_Grants_Program.png" style="width:1300px";>
</p>

> **:loudspeaker:** The Web3 Foundation _Open Grants_ Program focuses on technology grants of up to **$30,000 for initial grants** and **$100,000 for follow-up grants**, which are tracked **transparently** on GitHub and disbursed in **Bitcoin or DAI**. For larger grants, payments in fiat and private submissions, please see our [_General Grants_ Program](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program).

> :earth_asia: **_This page is also available in [Chinese (中文)](README_CN.md)._**

---

- [:wave: Introduction](#wave-introduction)
  - [Guidelines](#guidelines)
  - [Project ideas](#project-ideas)
  - [Support](#support)
  - [Team](#team)
    - [W3F Grants Committee](#w3f-grants-committee)
    - [W3F Grants Evaluators](#w3f-grants-evaluators)
    - [W3F Operations Team](#w3f-operations-team)
- [:pencil: Process](#pencil-process)
- [:bulb: Help](#bulb-help)
  - [Additional information](#additional-information)
  - [Real-time conversation](#real-time-conversation)
- [:rocket: Alternative Funding Sources](#rocket-alternative-funding-sources)
  - [Treasury](#treasury)
  - [General Grants Program](#general-grants-program)
  - [Other Grant Programs](#other-grant-programs)

## :wave: Introduction

As part of our commitment to promoting the Web3 ecosystem, we offer comprehensive grants programs focused on funding software development and research efforts related to **Polkadot, Kusama and Substrate**. For more information about the Web3 Foundation, please visit the [About page](https://web3.foundation/about/) on our website.

The Open Grants Program tries to achieve the above while being:

- fully transparent,
- simple, and
- effective.

### Guidelines

Anyone is welcome to apply for a grant. Projects funded through our programs are broad in scope, but our focus lies on strong technical projects that add value to the ecosystem.

Generally, your project will have better chances to get accepted if:

- It presents a **well-researched** or tested concept, for which ideally you are able to show some prior work.
- You can demonstrate that the project will be **maintained** after completion of the grant, be it through an obvious commitment to the technology from your side, additional funding sources or an existing business model.
- Your team has **proven experience** with the relevant languages and technologies and/or a strong technical background. We ask you to provide the GitHub profiles of all team members as part of your application and will examine these for past activity and code quality. Naturally, you can also link to projects on other platforms.
- Your application is **rich in technical details** and well-defined.
- You can clearly present how your project stands out among competitors or implements technology that doesn't exist in the ecosystem yet.

Additionally, it must fulfill the following requirements:

- All code produced as part of a grant must be **open-sourced**, and it must also not rely on closed-source software for full funcionality. We prefer Apache 2.0, but GPLv3 or Unlicense are also acceptable.
- We do not award grants for projects that have been the object of a successful token sale.
- Lastly, we do not fund projects that actively encourage gambling, illicit trade, money laundering or criminal activities in general.

In addition to the information provided on your application, note that your project will need to comply with our [Guidelines for Milestone Deliverables](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/milestone-deliverables-guidelines.md). In particular, we require all projects to create documentation that explains how their project works. At a minimum, _written_ documentation is required for funding. Tutorials or videos are also helpful for new users to understand how to use your product. If your team's background is purely technical, consider hiring a freelance or part-time technical writer as part of the grant.

### Project ideas

[Requests for Proposals](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/tree/master/rfps) (RFPs) are currently stored on the General Grants repository and represent ideas for projects that we would like to see implemented. Several teams may apply for the same RFP, out of which one or more strong applications will be selected. So even if another team has already applied to implement a certain RFP, we encourage you to still apply if you are interested.

An overview of existing projects in the Web 3.0 Technology Stack along with broad project ideas we would potentially be interested in funding can be found [here](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/polkadot_stack.md), as well as a list of previously accepted applications [here](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/accepted_grant_applications.md). Additionally, the Substrate Builders [feedback board](https://feedback.parity.io/) may contain some useful ideas for grant projects.

If you have a **good concept of the technical challenges** that your idea entails and would like feedback before applying, you can send us an [email](mailto:grants@web3.foundation) and tell us about it.

### Support

The scope of our Grants Programs consists of funding and feedback on delivered milestones. This means that we do not provide hands-on support as part of a grant, but if you face specific issues during development, we will do our best and try to direct you to the correct resources. If this sounds like something you would like however, you may also want to apply to Parity's [Substrate Builders Program](https://www.substrate.io/builders-program/), which provides hands-on technical, ecosystem and strategical long-term support and access to extensive resources.

### Team

#### W3F Grants Committee

The committee consists of individuals who know the funding priorities of the Polkadot ecosystem, and is responsible for evaluating grant applications and providing feedback on these.

In cases where a niche expert opinion is desirable, one of the committee members may request such a review.

- [Aeron Buchanan](https://github.com/aeronbuchanan)
- [Gautam Dhameja](https://github.com/gautamdhameja)
- [Marcin Górny](https://github.com/mmagician)
- [Robert Hambrock](https://github.com/Lederstrumpf)
- [David Hawig](https://github.com/Noc2)
- [Sebastian Müller](https://github.com/semuelle)
- [Aleixo Sánchez](https://github.com/alxs)
- [Reto Trinkler](https://github.com/retotrinkler)
- [Benjamin Weiß](https://github.com/BenWhiteJam)
- [Gavin Wood](https://github.com/gavofyork)

#### W3F Grants Evaluators

Evaluators are individuals able to evaluate the technology delivered as a result of the Open Grants Program. The committee has the right to add or remove evaluators on the basis of supermajority.

- [Marcin Górny](https://github.com/mmagician)
- [Robert Hambrock](https://github.com/Lederstrumpf)
- [David Hawig](https://github.com/Noc2)
- [Sebastian Müller](https://github.com/semuelle)
- [Aleixo Sánchez](https://github.com/alxs)

#### W3F Operations Team

The Operations Team takes care of legal documents, invoicing and remittances.

- [Kasper Mai Jørgensen](https://github.com/KasperJor)
- [Rouven Pérez](https://github.com/RouvenP)

## :pencil: Process

1. **Application**
   1. [Fork](https://github.com/w3f/Open-Grants-Program/fork) this repository.
   2. In the newly created fork, create a copy of the application template ([`applications/application-template.md`](applications/application-template.md)). If you're using the GitHub web interface, you will need to create a new file and copy the [contents](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3f/Open-Grants-Program/master/applications/application-template.md) of the template inside the new one. Make sure you **do not modify the template file directly**.
   3. Name the new file after your project: `project_name.md`.
   4. Fill out the template with the details of your project. The more information you provide, the faster the review.
   5. Once you're done, create a pull request. The pull request should only contain _one new file_—the Markdown file you created from the template.
   6. Sign off on the [terms and conditions](src/T&Cs.md) presented by the [CLA assistant](https://github.com/claassistantio) bot as a Contributor License Agreement. You might need to reload the pull request to see its comment.
2. **Application Review**
   1. The [committee](#w3f-grants-committee) can (and usually does) issue comments and request changes on the pull request.
   2. Clarifications and amendments made in the comments _need to be included in the application_. You may address feedback by modifying your application directly and leaving a comment once you're done.
   3. The application is accepted when all requested changes are addressed, the terms and conditions have been agreed upon and one third of the committee approves your pull request.
3. **Milestone Delivery and Payment**
   1. Milestones are to be delivered on the [Grant Milestone Delivery](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery/) repository. You can find the delivery process [here](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery#mailbox-milestone-delivery-process).

The grant application can be amended at any time. However, this _necessitates a reevaluation by the committee_. If your application has been accepted and, during development, you find that your project significantly deviates from the original specification, please open a new pull request that modifies the existing application.

Additionally, we try to enforce the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and based on this may [block users](https://github.blog/2016-04-04-organizations-can-now-block-abusive-users/).

## :bulb: Help

### Additional information

| <img src="src/web.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/twitter.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/medium.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/like.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/reddit.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/youtube-play.png?s=50" width="50"> |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [W3F Website](https://web3.foundation) | [W3F Twitter](https://twitter.com/web3foundation) | [W3F Medium](https://medium.com/web3foundation) | [Polkadot Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/en/) | [Web 3.0 Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/web3) | [W3F YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UClnw_bcNg4CAzF772qEtq4g) |

### Real-time conversation

We have Element channels for real-time discussions on Web3 and Polkadot. Join the conversation.

- [Web3 Foundation](https://app.element.io/#/room/#w3f:matrix.org)
- [Polkadot Watercooler](https://app.element.io/#/room/#polkadot-watercooler:web3.foundation)

## :rocket: Alternative Funding Sources

### Treasury

The treasury is a pot of on-chain funds collected through transaction fees, slashing, staking inefficiencies, etc. The funds held in the treasury can be spent on spending proposals. Both [Polkadot](https://polkadot.network/) and [Kusama](https://kusama.network/) offer everyone the opportunity to apply for funding via the treasury. See:

- [Treasury Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-treasury)
- [Polkadot Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IZykdp2cyQavcRyZd_dgNj5DcgxgZR6kAqGdcNARu1w)
- [Kusama Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p3UQUjph5t8TVaWnTkfrI5mE-BABnM9Xvtuhdlhl6JE)

### General Grants Program

For larger grants, payments in fiat or partially private submissions, please see our [General Grants Program](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program).

### Other Grant Programs

Below is a list of other grant programs in the polkadot/substrate ecosystem:

- [Darwinia Grants Program](https://docs.darwinia.network/docs/en/dev-bounty#grant-program)
- [Moonbeam Grants Program](https://moonbeam.network/community/grants/)
- [Edgeware Grants and Bounties](https://github.com/edgeware-builders/construction-projects)
- [Crust Grants Program](https://github.com/crustio/Crust-Grants-Program)

## :information_source: License <!-- omit in toc -->

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE) © Web3 Foundation.

Commit message:

no parallel funding from multiple sources

README.md, after:

# Open Grants Program <!-- omit in toc -->

<p align="center">
  <img src="src/Open_Grants_Program.png" style="width:1300px";>
</p>

> **:loudspeaker:** The Web3 Foundation _Open Grants_ Program focuses on technology grants of up to **$30,000 for initial grants** and **$100,000 for follow-up grants**, which are tracked **transparently** on GitHub and disbursed in **Bitcoin or DAI**. For larger grants, payments in fiat and private submissions, please see our [_General Grants_ Program](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program).

> :earth_asia: **_This page is also available in [Chinese (中文)](README_CN.md)._**

---

- [:wave: Introduction](#wave-introduction)
  - [Guidelines](#guidelines)
  - [Project ideas](#project-ideas)
  - [Support](#support)
  - [Team](#team)
    - [W3F Grants Committee](#w3f-grants-committee)
    - [W3F Grants Evaluators](#w3f-grants-evaluators)
    - [W3F Operations Team](#w3f-operations-team)
- [:pencil: Process](#pencil-process)
- [:bulb: Help](#bulb-help)
  - [Additional information](#additional-information)
  - [Real-time conversation](#real-time-conversation)
- [:rocket: Alternative Funding Sources](#rocket-alternative-funding-sources)
  - [Treasury](#treasury)
  - [General Grants Program](#general-grants-program)
  - [Other Grant Programs](#other-grant-programs)

## :wave: Introduction

As part of our commitment to promoting the Web3 ecosystem, we offer comprehensive grants programs focused on funding software development and research efforts related to **Polkadot, Kusama and Substrate**. For more information about the Web3 Foundation, please visit the [About page](https://web3.foundation/about/) on our website.

The Open Grants Program tries to achieve the above while being:

- fully transparent,
- simple, and
- effective.

### Guidelines

Anyone is welcome to apply for a grant. Projects funded through our programs are broad in scope, but our focus lies on strong technical projects that add value to the ecosystem.

Generally, your project will have better chances to get accepted if:

- It presents a **well-researched** or tested concept, for which ideally you are able to show some prior work.
- You can demonstrate that the project will be **maintained** after completion of the grant, be it through an obvious commitment to the technology from your side, additional funding sources or an existing business model.
- Your team has **proven experience** with the relevant languages and technologies and/or a strong technical background. We ask you to provide the GitHub profiles of all team members as part of your application and will examine these for past activity and code quality. Naturally, you can also link to projects on other platforms.
- Your application is **rich in technical details** and well-defined.
- You can clearly present how your project stands out among competitors or implements technology that doesn't exist in the ecosystem yet.

Additionally, it must fulfill the following requirements:

- All code produced as part of a grant must be **open-sourced**, and it must also not rely on closed-source software for full funcionality. We prefer Apache 2.0, but GPLv3 or Unlicense are also acceptable.
- We do not award grants for projects that have been the object of a successful token sale.
- Lastly, we do not fund projects that actively encourage gambling, illicit trade, money laundering or criminal activities in general.

In addition to the information provided on your application, note that your project will need to comply with our [Guidelines for Milestone Deliverables](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/milestone-deliverables-guidelines.md). In particular, we require all projects to create documentation that explains how their project works. At a minimum, _written_ documentation is required for funding. Tutorials or videos are also helpful for new users to understand how to use your product. If your team's background is purely technical, consider hiring a freelance or part-time technical writer as part of the grant.

### Project ideas

[Requests for Proposals](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/tree/master/rfps) (RFPs) are currently stored on the General Grants repository and represent ideas for projects that we would like to see implemented. Several teams may apply for the same RFP, out of which one or more strong applications will be selected. So even if another team has already applied to implement a certain RFP, we encourage you to still apply if you are interested.

An overview of existing projects in the Web 3.0 Technology Stack along with broad project ideas we would potentially be interested in funding can be found [here](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/polkadot_stack.md), as well as a list of previously accepted applications [here](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program/blob/master/grants/accepted_grant_applications.md). Additionally, the Substrate Builders [feedback board](https://feedback.parity.io/) may contain some useful ideas for grant projects.

If you have a **good concept of the technical challenges** that your idea entails and would like feedback before applying, you can send us an [email](mailto:grants@web3.foundation) and tell us about it.

### Support

The scope of our Grants Programs consists of funding and feedback on delivered milestones. This means that we do not provide hands-on support as part of a grant, but if you face specific issues during development, we will do our best and try to direct you to the correct resources. If this sounds like something you would like however, you may also want to apply to Parity's [Substrate Builders Program](https://www.substrate.io/builders-program/), which provides hands-on technical, ecosystem and strategical long-term support and access to extensive resources.

### Team

#### W3F Grants Committee

The committee consists of individuals who know the funding priorities of the Polkadot ecosystem, and is responsible for evaluating grant applications and providing feedback on these.

In cases where a niche expert opinion is desirable, one of the committee members may request such a review.

- [Aeron Buchanan](https://github.com/aeronbuchanan)
- [Gautam Dhameja](https://github.com/gautamdhameja)
- [Marcin Górny](https://github.com/mmagician)
- [Robert Hambrock](https://github.com/Lederstrumpf)
- [David Hawig](https://github.com/Noc2)
- [Sebastian Müller](https://github.com/semuelle)
- [Aleixo Sánchez](https://github.com/alxs)
- [Reto Trinkler](https://github.com/retotrinkler)
- [Benjamin Weiß](https://github.com/BenWhiteJam)
- [Gavin Wood](https://github.com/gavofyork)

#### W3F Grants Evaluators

Evaluators are individuals able to evaluate the technology delivered as a result of the Open Grants Program. The committee has the right to add or remove evaluators on the basis of supermajority.

- [Marcin Górny](https://github.com/mmagician)
- [Robert Hambrock](https://github.com/Lederstrumpf)
- [David Hawig](https://github.com/Noc2)
- [Sebastian Müller](https://github.com/semuelle)
- [Aleixo Sánchez](https://github.com/alxs)

#### W3F Operations Team

The Operations Team takes care of legal documents, invoicing and remittances.

- [Kasper Mai Jørgensen](https://github.com/KasperJor)
- [Rouven Pérez](https://github.com/RouvenP)

## :pencil: Process

1. **Application**
   1. [Fork](https://github.com/w3f/Open-Grants-Program/fork) this repository.
   2. In the newly created fork, create a copy of the application template ([`applications/application-template.md`](applications/application-template.md)). If you're using the GitHub web interface, you will need to create a new file and copy the [contents](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3f/Open-Grants-Program/master/applications/application-template.md) of the template inside the new one. Make sure you **do not modify the template file directly**.
   3. Name the new file after your project: `project_name.md`.
   4. Fill out the template with the details of your project. The more information you provide, the faster the review.
   5. Once you're done, create a pull request. The pull request should only contain _one new file_—the Markdown file you created from the template.
   6. Sign off on the [terms and conditions](src/T&Cs.md) presented by the [CLA assistant](https://github.com/claassistantio) bot as a Contributor License Agreement. You might need to reload the pull request to see its comment.
2. **Application Review**
   1. The [committee](#w3f-grants-committee) can (and usually does) issue comments and request changes on the pull request.
   2. Clarifications and amendments made in the comments _need to be included in the application_. You may address feedback by modifying your application directly and leaving a comment once you're done.
   3. The application is accepted when all requested changes are addressed, the terms and conditions have been agreed upon and one third of the committee approves your pull request.
3. **Milestone Delivery and Payment**
   1. Milestones are to be delivered on the [Grant Milestone Delivery](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery/) repository. You can find the delivery process [here](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery#mailbox-milestone-delivery-process).

The grant application can be amended at any time. However, this _necessitates a reevaluation by the committee_. If your application has been accepted and, during development, you find that your project significantly deviates from the original specification, please open a new pull request that modifies the existing application.

Additionally, we try to enforce the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and based on this may [block users](https://github.blog/2016-04-04-organizations-can-now-block-abusive-users/).

## :bulb: Help

### Additional information

| <img src="src/web.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/twitter.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/medium.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/like.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/reddit.png?s=50" width="50"> | <img src="src/youtube-play.png?s=50" width="50"> |
| :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: |
| [W3F Website](https://web3.foundation) | [W3F Twitter](https://twitter.com/web3foundation) | [W3F Medium](https://medium.com/web3foundation) | [Polkadot Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/en/) | [Web 3.0 Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/web3) | [W3F YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UClnw_bcNg4CAzF772qEtq4g) |

### Real-time conversation

We have Element channels for real-time discussions on Web3 and Polkadot. Join the conversation.

- [Web3 Foundation](https://app.element.io/#/room/#w3f:matrix.org)
- [Polkadot Watercooler](https://app.element.io/#/room/#polkadot-watercooler:web3.foundation)

## :rocket: Alternative Funding Sources

Some funding sources might be more and some less suitable for your project throughout its various stages. We encourage you to explore alternative funding options listed below. Please note, however, that you should not seek to fund the **same scope of work** from multiple sources and that any team found doing so will have its Web3 Foundation support terminated.

### Treasury

The treasury is a pot of on-chain funds collected through transaction fees, slashing, staking inefficiencies, etc. The funds held in the treasury can be spent on spending proposals. Both [Polkadot](https://polkadot.network/) and [Kusama](https://kusama.network/) offer everyone the opportunity to apply for funding via the treasury. See:

- [Treasury Wiki](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/en/learn-treasury)
- [Polkadot Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IZykdp2cyQavcRyZd_dgNj5DcgxgZR6kAqGdcNARu1w)
- [Kusama Treasury Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p3UQUjph5t8TVaWnTkfrI5mE-BABnM9Xvtuhdlhl6JE)

### General Grants Program

For larger grants, payments in fiat or partially private submissions, please see our [General Grants Program](https://github.com/w3f/General-Grants-Program).

### Hackathons

From time to time, Web3 Foundation and/or Parity organise hackathons to promote quick prototyping of your Polkadot related ideas.
We highly encourage you to participate in these hackathons. Bear in mind, however, that you cannot submit the **same work** for a hackathon and the Grants Program. If you have worked on a project for a hackathon, your grant application should either propose a new set of features or otherwise build on top of your previous work. The same applies in reverse, although that will likely be less common.

The best way to find out about upcoming hackathons is by following Polkadot on the various channels, such as Element or Twitter.

### Other Grant Programs

Below is a list of other grant programs in the polkadot/substrate ecosystem:

- [Darwinia Grants Program](https://docs.darwinia.network/docs/en/dev-bounty#grant-program)
- [Moonbeam Grants Program](https://moonbeam.network/community/grants/)
- [Edgeware Grants and Bounties](https://github.com/edgeware-builders/construction-projects)
- [Crust Grants Program](https://github.com/crustio/Crust-Grants-Program)

## :information_source: License <!-- omit in toc -->

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE) © Web3 Foundation.
