applications/Starry_Network.md, before:

# Open Grant Proposal

* **Project Name:** Starry Protocol
* **Proposer:** [Starry Network](https://github.com/Starry-Network)
* **Payment Address:** 0xe29DE8c6088d241647e6456F8b4755a3D0f7c8B1

## Project Overview :page_facing_up: 
### Overview

It is well known that most NFTs are traded either directly or by auction, and the single NFT limit the flexibility of NFTs in some ways.

Splittable NFT will bring more possibilities for NFT ecosystem. For example, buying SubNFTs on bonding curve will allow for better pricing of works, while NFTs that are otherwise very expensive can be collected by more people, and will also have applications in rare tickets, rare music works on sale, etc.

Starry is developing an NFT Wrapper and can split an NFT into some sub nft or fungible token or split a set of NFTs into fungible tokens.

### Project Details 
The Starry Protocol contains four parts: Pallet_NFT, Pallet_SubNFT, Pallet_EX, Frontend

### Ecosystem Fit 
What is the difference between SubNFT and Erc-1155?

erc-1155's multiple NFT is Semi-fungible tokens, these tokens use same token_id.

SubNFT splits single NFT into different NFTs, each SubNFT has its own token_id. As a result, subNFT is even rarer and suitable as a collector's item.

For example, we can use Semi-fungible tokens to create general admission tickets for a concert, and then use SubNFT to create commemorative tickets.

#### Architecture



![](https://github.com/Starry-Network/frontend_mvp/blob/main/public/images/architecture.png?raw=true)



**Pallet_NFT**

Creates, destroys, transfers NFT. modifies existing Pallet-NFT so that they can create multiple NFT

**Pallet_SubNFT**

An NFT Wrapper to split NFTs into SubNFTs or fungible tokens, or a set of NFTs into fungible tokens

**Pallet_EX**

exchange NFT (including buying SubNFTs with bonding curve/one price) and send royalties generated by each transaction to the creator

**FrontEnd**

Interaction with users. Here is a  [demo](https://friendly-mclean-d455eb.netlify.app/)

## Team :busts_in_silhouette:

### Team members
* Poria - Full-stack Developer

### Contact
* **Contact Name:** Poria Cattus
* **Contact Email:** fulingcat@gmail.com
* Starry.network (WIP)

### Legal Structure 
* No Legal Entity

### Team's experience
**Poria**

- Full-stack Developer
- Expertise in using JS, PHP, Python, Rust
- Have written blockchain with DAG structure in JS

### Team Code Repos
* https://github.com/Starry-Network
* https://github.com/Starry-Network/frontend_mvp

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt: 

### Overview
* **Total Estimated Duration:** 2 months
* **Full-time equivalent (FTE):**  1
* **Total Costs:** 14000 DAI

### Milestone 1 Example — Implement Substrate Modules 
* **Estimated Duration:** 2 months
* **FTE:**  1
* **Costs:** 14000 DAI

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | Apache License 2.0 |
| 0b. | Documentation | Documents containing the description of whole architecture design for Starry |
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Provide a full test suite and guide for NFT. The code will have unit-test coverage (min. 70%) to ensure functionality and robustness. |
| 0d. | Article/Tutorial | Write an article or tutorial that explains the work done as part of the grant on medium. 
| 1a. | Node Repo | Complete the deployment of the basic public chain |  
| 2a. | Pallet_NFT | Complete the development of pallet_nft, realize the single/multiple NFT create, transfer and burn mechanism
| 2b. | Pallet_SubNFT | Complete the development of pallet_subNFT, relize the split, transfer, burn and recover mechanism|
| 2c. | Pallet_EX | Complete the development of pallet_ex, relize the bonding curve and one price mechanism|
| 3. | Front End | Complete the development of the basic interactive page in React, the demo is [demo](https://friendly-mclean-d455eb.netlify.app/)|  
| 5. | Docker | We will provide a dockerfile to demonstrate the full functionality of our chain |


## Future Plans
- Implementing auction functions (English auction, Dutch auction).
- Add comments, favorites and data analysis to Starry to improve the Starry ecosystem.
- Simplify the usage process and make NFT more friendly to newcomers.
- Implementing cross-chain transmission NFT.
- Lead the community to hold online exhibitions and comment on good NFT works, using tokens to promote these beneficial behaviors.

Commit message:

remove ecosystem fit and add additional Information

applications/Starry_Network.md, after:

# Open Grant Proposal

* **Project Name:** Starry Protocol
* **Proposer:** [Starry Network](https://github.com/Starry-Network)
* **Payment Address:** 0xe29DE8c6088d241647e6456F8b4755a3D0f7c8B1

## Project Overview :page_facing_up: 
### Overview

It is well known that most NFTs are traded either directly or by auction, and the single NFT limit the flexibility of NFTs in some ways.

Splittable NFT will bring more possibilities for NFT ecosystem. For example, buying SubNFTs on bonding curve will allow for better pricing of works, while NFTs that are otherwise very expensive can be collected by more people, and will also have applications in rare tickets, rare music works on sale, etc.

Starry is developing an NFT Wrapper and can split an NFT into some sub nft or fungible token or split a set of NFTs into fungible tokens.

### Project Details 
The Starry Protocol contains four parts: Pallet_NFT, Pallet_SubNFT, Pallet_EX, Frontend


#### Architecture



![](https://github.com/Starry-Network/frontend_mvp/blob/main/public/images/architecture.png?raw=true)



**Pallet_NFT**

Creates, destroys, transfers NFT. modifies existing Pallet-NFT so that they can create multiple NFT

**Pallet_SubNFT**

An NFT Wrapper to split NFTs into SubNFTs or fungible tokens, or a set of NFTs into fungible tokens

**Pallet_EX**

exchange NFT (including buying SubNFTs with bonding curve/one price) and send royalties generated by each transaction to the creator

**FrontEnd**

Interaction with users. Here is a  [demo](https://friendly-mclean-d455eb.netlify.app/)

## Team :busts_in_silhouette:

### Team members
* Poria - Full-stack Developer

### Contact
* **Contact Name:** Poria Cattus
* **Contact Email:** fulingcat@gmail.com
* Starry.network (WIP)

### Legal Structure 
* No Legal Entity

### Team's experience
**Poria**

- Full-stack Developer
- Expertise in using JS, PHP, Python, Rust
- Have written blockchain with DAG structure in JS

### Team Code Repos
* https://github.com/Starry-Network
* https://github.com/Starry-Network/frontend_mvp

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt: 

### Overview
* **Total Estimated Duration:** 2 months
* **Full-time equivalent (FTE):**  1
* **Total Costs:** 14000 DAI

### Milestone 1 Example — Implement Substrate Modules 
* **Estimated Duration:** 2 months
* **FTE:**  1
* **Costs:** 14000 DAI

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | Apache License 2.0 |
| 0b. | Documentation | Documents containing the description of whole architecture design for Starry |
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Provide a full test suite and guide for NFT. The code will have unit-test coverage (min. 70%) to ensure functionality and robustness. |
| 0d. | Article/Tutorial | Write an article or tutorial that explains the work done as part of the grant on medium. 
| 1a. | Node Repo | Complete the deployment of the basic public chain |  
| 2a. | Pallet_NFT | Complete the development of pallet_nft, realize the single/multiple NFT create, transfer and burn mechanism
| 2b. | Pallet_SubNFT | Complete the development of pallet_subNFT, relize the split, transfer, burn and recover mechanism|
| 2c. | Pallet_EX | Complete the development of pallet_ex, relize the bonding curve and one price mechanism|
| 3. | Front End | Complete the development of the basic interactive page in React, the demo is [demo](https://friendly-mclean-d455eb.netlify.app/)|  
| 5. | Docker | We will provide a dockerfile to demonstrate the full functionality of our chain |


## Future Plans
- Implementing auction functions (English auction, Dutch auction).
- Add comments, favorites and data analysis to Starry to improve the Starry ecosystem.
- Simplify the usage process and make NFT more friendly to newcomers.
- Implementing cross-chain transmission NFT.
- Lead the community to hold online exhibitions and comment on good NFT works, using tokens to promote these beneficial behaviors.

## Additional Information :heavy_plus_sign: 

- What is the difference between SubNFT and Erc-721?

subNFT is also erc-721 token.
