docs/Process/how-to-apply.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: 1. Application
---


:::caution

The process below is independent of the [level](../Introduction/levels.md). Payment is made in Bitcoin, USDT (on Kusama or Polkadot), USDC/DAI (Ethereum) or aUSD (Acala). If you want to apply in **private**  and/or you need to be paid out in **fiat**, you can apply [:arrow_right: here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMfjiRmDQDRk-4OhNASM6BAKii7rz_B1jWtbCPkUh6N7M2ww/viewform). Note that this is generally a slower process and imposes stricter requirements on applicants.

:::


## How to apply:

   1. Please read our [FAQs](../faq.md), [category guidelines](../Support%20Docs/grant_guidelines_per_category.md), [announcement guidelines](../Support%20Docs/announcement-guidelines.md) and [Terms & Conditions](../Support%20Docs/T&Cs.md) to familiarize yourself with the subtleties of grants, applications and the program as a whole.
   2. [Fork](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/fork) our grants program repository.
   3. In the newly created fork, create a copy of the [application template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/application-template.md). If you're using the GitHub web interface, you will need to create a new file and copy the [contents](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3f/Grants-Program/master/applications/application-template.md) of the template inside the new one. Make sure you **do not modify the template file directly**. In the case of a maintenance application, use the [maintenance template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/maintenance/maintenance-template.md) instead.
   4. Name the new file after your project: `project_name.md`.
   5. Fill out the template with the details of your project. The more information you provide, the faster the review. Please refer to our [Grant guidelines for most popular grant categories](../Support%20Docs/grant_guidelines_per_category.md) and make sure your deliverables present a similar same level of detail. To get an idea of what a strong application looks like, you can have a look at the following examples:  [1](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/project_aurras_mvp_phase_1.md), [2](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/project_bodhi.md), [3](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/pontem.md), [4](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/spartan_poc_consensus_module.md). Naturally, if you're only applying for a smaller grant that only consists of, say, UI work, you don't need to provide as much detail.
   6. Once you're done, create a pull request. The pull request should only contain _one new file_—the Markdown file you created from the template.
   7. You will see a comment template that contains a checklist. You can leave it as is and tick the checkboxes once the pull request has been created. Please read through these items and check all of them.
   8. Sign off on the [terms and conditions](../Support%20Docs/T&Cs.md) presented by the [CLA assistant](https://github.com/claassistantio) bot as a Contributor License Agreement. You might need to reload the pull request to see its comment.

Commit message:

specify that a PR needs to be opened in our main grants program repo

docs/Process/how-to-apply.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: 1. Application
---


:::caution

The process below is independent of the [level](../Introduction/levels.md). Payment is made in Bitcoin, USDT (on Kusama or Polkadot), USDC/DAI (Ethereum) or aUSD (Acala). If you want to apply in **private**  and/or you need to be paid out in **fiat**, you can apply [:arrow_right: here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMfjiRmDQDRk-4OhNASM6BAKii7rz_B1jWtbCPkUh6N7M2ww/viewform). Note that this is generally a slower process and imposes stricter requirements on applicants.

:::


## How to apply:

   1. Please read our [FAQs](../faq.md), [category guidelines](../Support%20Docs/grant_guidelines_per_category.md), [announcement guidelines](../Support%20Docs/announcement-guidelines.md) and [Terms & Conditions](../Support%20Docs/T&Cs.md) to familiarize yourself with the subtleties of grants, applications and the program as a whole.
   2. [Fork](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/fork) our grants program repository.
   3. In the newly created fork, create a copy of the [application template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/application-template.md). If you're using the GitHub web interface, you will need to create a new file and copy the [contents](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3f/Grants-Program/master/applications/application-template.md) of the template inside the new one. Make sure you **do not modify the template file directly**. In the case of a maintenance application, use the [maintenance template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/maintenance/maintenance-template.md) instead.
   4. Name the new file after your project: `project_name.md`.
   5. Fill out the template with the details of your project. The more information you provide, the faster the review. Please refer to our [Grant guidelines for most popular grant categories](../Support%20Docs/grant_guidelines_per_category.md) and make sure your deliverables present a similar same level of detail. To get an idea of what a strong application looks like, you can have a look at the following examples:  [1](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/project_aurras_mvp_phase_1.md), [2](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/project_bodhi.md), [3](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/pontem.md), [4](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/spartan_poc_consensus_module.md). Naturally, if you're only applying for a smaller grant that only consists of, say, UI work, you don't need to provide as much detail.
   6. Once you're done, create a pull request in **our** main [Grants-Program repository](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery/blob/master/README.md). The pull request should only contain _one new file_—the Markdown file you created from the template.
   7. You will see a comment template that contains a checklist. You can leave it as is and tick the checkboxes once the pull request has been created. Please read through these items and check all of them.
   8. Sign off on the [terms and conditions](../Support%20Docs/T&Cs.md) presented by the [CLA assistant](https://github.com/claassistantio) bot as a Contributor License Agreement. You might need to reload the pull request to see its comment.
