docs/suggesting.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Suggesting a Project
---

<!-- ## :mailbox_with_mail: Suggest a Project -->

If you think that we should support the development of certain tools or projects that aren't in the Polkadot/Kusama [tech stack](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/build-open-source), feel free to submit a suggestion using the process described below. We are particularly interested in supporting projects that could be leveraged by other builders in our ecosystem.

**Submit an idea:**

If you have an idea for a project or would like to highlight an area in which you'd like to see teams build, but lack the technical background to create a detailed outline, you're welcome to open an [issue](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/issues/new) or add it to the [tech stack](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/build-open-source) as a potentially interesting project. We will review your suggestion and, if necessary, will create an RFP based on it and reach out to teams able to build it.

**Submit an RFP (Request for Proposals):**

Ideas generally have better chances of being implemented if they're presented in a project outline format that can be picked up straight away by a team, so if you have a good concept of the milestones required to bring your project to life, you can follow the process below and directly submit an RFP:

1. [Fork](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/fork) this repository.
2. In the newly created fork, create a copy of the suggestion template ([`rfps/suggestion-template.md`](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/web-test-branch/docs/rfps/suggestion-template.md)) inside the [`rfps`](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/web-test-branch/docs/rfps/) folder. Make sure you create a new file and copy the [contents](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3f/Grants-Program/web-test-branch/docs/rfps/suggestion-template.md) of the template into the new one, and _do not modify the template file directly._
3. Name the file after your idea: `project_name.md`.
4. Fill out the template with the project details. Please include as many details as possible.
5. Once you're done, create a pull request. The pull request should only contain _one new file_—the Markdown file you created from the template.
6. You will see the same template as for creating an application. Please replace it with [the RFP PR template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/web-test-branch/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/rfp_pr_template.md).
7. The RFP will be accepted and merged as soon as it receives three approvals from [W3F Grants Committee](./Introduction/team.md#w3f-grants-committee) members.

Commit message:

specify that a PR needs to be opened in our main grants program repo

docs/suggesting.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Suggesting a Project
---

<!-- ## :mailbox_with_mail: Suggest a Project -->

If you think that we should support the development of certain tools or projects that aren't in the Polkadot/Kusama [tech stack](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/build-open-source), feel free to submit a suggestion using the process described below. We are particularly interested in supporting projects that could be leveraged by other builders in our ecosystem.

**Submit an idea:**

If you have an idea for a project or would like to highlight an area in which you'd like to see teams build, but lack the technical background to create a detailed outline, you're welcome to open an [issue](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/issues/new) or add it to the [tech stack](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/build-open-source) as a potentially interesting project. We will review your suggestion and, if necessary, will create an RFP based on it and reach out to teams able to build it.

**Submit an RFP (Request for Proposals):**

Ideas generally have better chances of being implemented if they're presented in a project outline format that can be picked up straight away by a team, so if you have a good concept of the milestones required to bring your project to life, you can follow the process below and directly submit an RFP:

1. [Fork](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/fork) this repository.
2. In the newly created fork, create a copy of the suggestion template ([`rfps/suggestion-template.md`](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/web-test-branch/docs/rfps/suggestion-template.md)) inside the [`rfps`](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/web-test-branch/docs/rfps/) folder. Make sure you create a new file and copy the [contents](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/w3f/Grants-Program/web-test-branch/docs/rfps/suggestion-template.md) of the template into the new one, and _do not modify the template file directly._
3. Name the file after your idea: `project_name.md`.
4. Fill out the template with the project details. Please include as many details as possible.
5. Once you're done, create a pull request in **our** main [Grants-Program repository](https://github.com/w3f/Grant-Milestone-Delivery/blob/master/README.md). The pull request should only contain _one new file_—the Markdown file you created from the template.
6. You will see the same template as for creating an application. Please replace it with [the RFP PR template](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/web-test-branch/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/rfp_pr_template.md).
7. The RFP will be accepted and merged as soon as it receives three approvals from [W3F Grants Committee](./Introduction/team.md#w3f-grants-committee) members.
